# Week 6B - Classes & Canvas Transformations

## 0. Early Version of Practice Quiz available... 
- Go to Quizzes section of myCourses to try it.  (It should be at the bottom of the Practice Quizzes section).

<hr>

## I. Past Assignments
- [PE-06 - Animated Sine Wave / Algorithmic Botany (Phyllotaxis)](../pe/pe-06.md)
  - Let's take a look at the submissions
  - What would it take to make this a credible portfolio piece?

<hr>

## II. Upcoming Assignments
- [Extra Credit PE - "Phyllo-classy"](../extracredit/phyllo-classy.md)
- [PE-07 - Audio Visualizer](../pe/pe-07.md)
- 6B Quiz - Study Quiz (due in 48 hours?)
  - digital version
  - covers objects & classes
  - we will review the answers, 2/27
- [HW-2 - Audio Visualizer - Ultimate Version](../hw/hw-2.md) -- due March 4

<hr>

## III. Sprites continued
- Let's finish what we started last class.
- [ES6 Class Notes](../notes/es6-class-notes.md)
- Things to look at:
  - Adding new objects to arrays
  - Looping over arrays:
    - `for`, `for..of`, `array.forEach()`
  - `CircleSprite` class constructor
    - use `Object.assign()` and shorthand object property initialization
    - object destructuring the parameter list & passing in a single object as a parameter
    - default parameter values
    - Using `Object.seal()` in the `CircleSprite` constructor
- Note new addition to the "Canvas & Audio - Demos and Files" module in myCourses:  "Smooth Canvas Animation"
<hr>

## IV. Canvas Transformations

- [**Canvas 2D Essential Skills #8 - Canvas Transformations**](https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-330-Master/blob/master/notes/8-canvas-transformations.md)
  - Concepts:
    - Transformations: `ctx.translate()`, `ctx.rotate()`, `ctx.scale()`
    - Managing transformations with `ctx.save()` and `ctx.restore()`
  - Docs:
    - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API/Tutorial/Transformations
    - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/translate
    - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/rotate
    - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/scale
    - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/setTransform

<hr>

## V. PE?? - Translate/Rotate/Scale - Will be Due Wed, Feb 28.  Dropbox and Rubric coming.

- ***Here are the instructions (see myCourses dropbox for due date):***

1) Follow along with the demo we do in class today - https://github.com/tonethar/IGME-330-Master/blob/master/notes/8-canvas-transformations.md - and build what we built.

2) If you miss anything - no problem! The video links at the bottom of the above page walk though the entire demo.

3) Once you have re-created what we made (if it's slightly different than ours, no biggie!), add the following:

    - draw an additional rotating triangle
    - draw that triangle with a triangle helper function - no we didn't make this function in the demo - you can do it - be sure to use the "good triangle" code that draws around 0,0
    - draw at least one more animated shape (square, triangle,circle, ...). For this, you must animate either scale or translation (or both, or add in rotation and do all 3!)

4) Tell us what you did in the comments field of the dropbox

5) Name the file ***lastName-firstInitial*-trs.html**

6) ZIP and POST the file here

<hr><hr>

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
| [**Week 6A Notes**](06A.md)  |  [**IGME-330 Schedule**](../schedule.md) | [**Week 07A Notes**](07A.md)
